Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain an adventure,
drama, horror film called "High Life."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Inside a space station, a baby named Willow
plays by herself in her makeshift playpen.
Her father, Monte, talks to her via the speakers
while he's making repairs outside the ship.
Willow continues to babble, distressed when
the movie playing on her screen ends. Her cries
grow louder, blaring inside Monte's spacesuit,
causing him to drop his wrench out of reach.
Monte freezes, staring blankly into space as one
of his only tools in the space station disappears.
He snaps out of it when
Willow starts babbling again.
Willow watches from the screen as her father
enters the airlock room and removes his spacesuit.
Monte gathers vegetables from the garden
and makes baby food to feed Willow.
As the day goes on, Monte focuses
on caring for the child on his own.
He is troubled when the lights go out in the
hallway but is thankful when the power comes back.
The day continues with Monte
talking to the baby as he cleans up.
He rambles on about recycling their waste then
tries to teach her the word taboo. Monte wonders
what his father would think of him now, noting
that Willow has broken the laws of nature.
As Willow sleeps, Monte sings her a song
softly, feeling her breath and heartbeat.
The lights turn red, and an alarm blares from
afar. Carefully, Monte gets up and leaves.
In a control room, Monte records his progress
on the computer. He reports the repairs he made
to the station and that he and Willow are in
good health. The computer receives a response
that his clearance is granted, allowing their
life support to continue for another 24 hours.
Finally, the power turns back on in
the station, and the alarm stops.
Relieved yet tired, Monte enters the morgue and
unzips a bag, revealing a blonde woman inside.
He zips the bag up again and removes it
from the table. He then starts moving all
the bodies inside and dressing them in spacesuits.
One by one, he carries the bodies and
releases them into space. Once all are gone,
he stares into the void, letting go of
the past that brought him to where he is.
Monte turns back, seeing the
only other spacesuit left inside.
He imagines a red-headed woman wearing
a spacesuit, floating in the room as if
inviting him to join her. On his knees, Monte
weeps, fighting to push down the thoughts.
Monte heads back to the morgue, staring
at the empty room as Willow cries.
He logs the deactivated cryogenics in the
control room before comforting the baby.
Broken and overwhelmed, Monte begs
Willow to stop crying. Once she's calm,
Willow pokes at a scar on Monte's arm, leading him
to remember the doctor who tended to him before.
Once Willow is asleep, Monte ponders over their
situation. He is alone with the child in space,
with no hope of ever returning
to Earth. With those in mind,
he entertains the idea of ending both their lives.
Monte heads to the control room, staring at the
computer that plays a video of a boy at the beach.
Monte has grown tired of the footages of
life on Earth, seeing it as a virus that
drives him insane. He heads for the
infirmary and searches the medicine
cabinet. When he finds an empty bottle, he
throws it against the wall in frustration.
Next, he finds another bottle and spills
its contents in his hand but places them
back in the bottle, leaving only one. Finally,
Monte decides against his plan to end it all.
Since the space station left the solar system,
Monte hasn't been able to contact Earth,
even though he receives the videos
from Earth. He wonders if the videos
were programmed to make them
think they can still return.
When Monte sleeps, he dreams about his childhood,
when he found his dog dead in the river banks
with his friend running away from the scene.
Not long after, his friend was
found dead, bearing a head wound.
Back on Earth, a woman interviews a
professor who expresses his disdain
about death row inmates being sent
to outer space to be experimented on.
He believes it's inhumane, notably that
the government doesn't inform the inmates
that they have no chance of returning to
Earth. It also takes years for Earth to
receive the report sent from these space
stations, thus barring any communication.
In the space station, Monte happily
teaches Willow how to walk. Then,
seeing his daughter grow, he starts to remember
his former companions in the space station.
He remembers the red-headed woman, Boyse,
fondly, imagining her previous life on Earth,
hitchhiking on a train with friends. He thinks
she was happy, despite living a poor lifestyle.
Before the space station, he and the rest
were considered scums of society on Earth.
Most of them were death row
inmates or serving a life sentence,
so when they were given the opportunity
to serve science instead, they agreed.
In the third year after the ship left Earth,
Monte stops Boyse from vandalizing the wall. Their
quarrel leads to a fight that ends with Boyse
slicing his arm. In retaliation, he punches her.
They're both taken to the
infirmary, where Dr. Dibs
stitches up Monte's arm. Boyse accuses Dr. Dibs
of knowing that they will never return to Earth.
Dr. Dibs notes that their lives
had improved in the space station,
compared to how they were on Earth. Boyse sits
beside her friend, Elektra, and berates Dr. Dibs
that their experiments to have a successful birth
outside the solar system will only kill them.
As part of the experiment, Dr. Dibs takes
samples from the male inmates in exchange
for recreational pills. However,
Monte doesn't take part in this.
The ship's pilot, Nansen, questions why Dr. Dibs
bothers with it, as all babies produced there die
from radiation. She asks Dr. Dibs what happens if
she's successful, but the doctor doesn't answer.
Later on, Dr. Dibs heads down the engine room
and into a closed, private room called "The Box."
There, she undresses and uses a device
inside for an intimate time by herself.
After the event, Monte sees her coming out
of the Box, questioning if it is suitable for
her to go there. She assures him that
it does. Dr. Dibs knows that all the
inmates think of her as a witch, but Monte
compliments her to make her feel better,
though he doesn't understand why she's
still obsessed with the experiment.
After she leaves, an inmate named Ettore
goes inside the Box for his own pleasure.
Monte refuses to use the Box, as he has
chosen abstinence to make himself stronger.
In the garden, Monte tends to the plants with his
friend, Tcherny. Monte enjoys being in the garden
since it reminds him of home. Tcherny hopes his
son is living a better life on Earth than he is,
then asks Monte about his family.
Monte replies that he only had his dog.
The whole crew watches the stars getting
farther from the ship's window. Even though
it seems that the ship is moving backward, they
are moving forward at 99% the speed of light.
Unfortunately, their speed causes the space
around them to warp, which bothers Monte.
One day, Dr. Dibs discovers that
the ship's captain, Chandra,
has developed leukemia due to
radiation. Monte is thankful
for having good genes that prevent him
from getting affected by the radiation.
Other than the fertility experiments, part
of the group's mission is to harvest energy
from a black hole that could provide
humanity an infinite energy resource.
With their journey reaching its midpoint, the
crew prepares for the ship's deceleration. Monte
helps strap his companions to their seats, with
Boyse being protective over the pregnant Elektra.
Days after the deceleration, Ettore
makes a move on Nansen, who rejects him.
He checks the hallway and watches Dr. Dibs and
Chandra flirt, touching himself as they do.
When Dr. Dibs refuses Chandra, Ettore
disappointedly goes back into his room. With
the uncomfortable situation with his roommates,
Tcherny decides to sleep in the garden instead.
In the other room, Boyse takes out supplies
she took from the clinic while Mink keeps
watch by the door. Elektra mocks Boyse as she
attempts to undo Dr. Dibs' insemination on her.
Weeks later, Elektra dies after giving birth,
and her baby soon dies due to radiation.
The inmates gather as Dr. Dibs
seals Elektra's body in the morgue.
Boyse is upset and angered, blaming
Dr. Dibs for her friend's death.
Chandra suffers a stroke just as the
alarms blare. Chandra needs to input
the report to sustain their life support
but is not in the condition to do so.
So instead, Dr. Dib slices his finger to take the
captain's transceiver to input the report herself.
Later that day, Monte collects
Boyse and Mink from the garden,
telling them it's almost lights
out. Boyse looks at him fondly,
then starts singing, mocking him, but
her face saddens as the song ends.
Chandra becomes bedridden after
his stroke. Dr. Dibs comforts him,
massaging his legs to prevent atrophy. But Chandra
refuses to live with his body as his prison.
As he wishes, Dr. Dibs euthanizes him
and stays with him until he's gone.
One night, Ettore enters the girl's room, staring
at Boyse as she sleeps. He removes her blanket and
begins touching her. Boyse wakes up, screaming
in protest. Mink wakes up, but Ettore punches
her until she's knocked down. Nansen goes
in to pull him off, but Ettore beats her.
Boyse and Mink are unable to escape, strapped to
their beds. Monte and Tcherny hear the commotion
and help the girls. Monte continuously beats
Ettore until Tcherny pulls him away, letting
the injured man out of the room. Once freed,
Mink stabs Ettore in the face with broken glass.
After the event, Dr. Dibs checks on
Boyse, confirming that she isn't pregnant.
Boyse is determined not to have kids. She
asks Dr. Dibs if she truly suffocated her
children and husband, thus
earning her life sentence.
Dr. Dibs admits that she attempted
to end her life after the tragedy.
Due to the altercation with Ettore, Dr. Dibs
doubles the inmates' sedatives to keep them
calm and sleep through the night. While the
inmates are asleep, Dr. Dibs checks on their
rooms one by one then stops at Monte's. When she
notices that Nansen is still awake, she urges the
woman to sleep. Instead, Nansen pretends to sleep
but watches as Dr. Dibs climbs into Monte's bed.
Dr. Dibs expresses her fondness for him, being
the only one who doesn't want anything from her.
With him fully sedated, Dr. Dibs takes
advantage of him then collects his fluids.
She secretly inseminates Boyse while she's
passed out, praying for a child to be conceived.
Months later, Boyse successfully
gives birth to a baby girl,
but the new mother becomes depressed after
being an unwitting part of Dr. Dibs' experiment.
On the other hand, Dr. Dibs is
delighted for a healthy baby.
Years later, Willow has grown into a teenager.
Monte wakes up, finding her in his bed after she
struggles to sleep. He scolds her, and Willow
climbs back to her bed. After she does so,
Monte looks down on the bed, seeing bloodstains
that suggest she's reached womanhood.
Willow confesses to having read his records
that say he killed his childhood friend
over the death of his dog. Monte confirms
this, commenting that the girl was insane.
Back in the past, Monte and Tcherny help
Nansen prepare the shuttle as the ship
approaches a black hole. Nansen
is troubled by the expedition,
but since she's the only pilot
they have, only she can do the job.
Once the men are away, Boyse heads down
to the airlock room, carrying a shovel.
Monte, Tcherny, and Dr. Dibs watch as Nansen
leaves with the shuttle in the control room.
But instead of Nansen, it's Boyse
in the shuttle, replacing Nansen,
whom she struck with the shovel earlier.
Boyse smiles as she approaches the black
hole. But a molecular cloud diverts the
shuttle's trajectory, forcing it
into the center of the black hole.
The black hole causes the shuttle to stretch
and compress, ending Boyse's journey in space.
After losing her friend and finding
Nansen lifeless in the engine room,
Mink takes the shovel and strikes Dr.
Dibs, blaming her for all the tragedy.
Monte steals the shovel from Mink and hits
her on the head, accidentally killing her.
Despite the happiness she found in the living
child, Dr. Dibs is driven to the edge. She
leaves behind the captain's transceiver and
confesses to Monte that he is the baby's father.
Dr. Dibs exits the spaceship, ejecting
herself into space without a spacesuit on.
Monte heads downstairs but is too
late to save her. He harms himself,
feeling the insanity of the events washing
over him. He takes the captain's transceiver
and looks outside the window, finding Dr. Dib's
body floating in space with a smile on her face.
With Monte and Tcherny the only ones left,
Tcherny recounts how he viewed the mission
as a way to bring glory to his family after his
crimes, but his wife disagreed, wanting to have
grieved for his death instead of losing him in
this unknown journey. Tcherny dies not long after,
and Monte buries him in the garden, knowing
that his friend would have wanted it.
After burying his friend, Monte
takes the baby out of the incubator.
At first, he doubted his thoughts about
the child, unsure of what to do with her.
But seeing her healthy and full of
hope, he grows affection for her.
In the present, Monte and the teenage Willow
try to fix a leak in their water storage.
With years revolving around the
black hole, the ship is in disarray.
The system detects another ship
nearby, one that is similar to theirs.
Monte tries to communicate with the ship
but receives no response. He warns Willow
that other people might be on board, but she's
confused about why he's worried. Monte chuckles,
wondering instead if the people could help them.
But Willow replies that they don't need help.
After connecting their ship with the other one,
Monte enters the opposite ship to investigate.
From the airlock room, he spots dogs
on the other side. He pries the door
open and approaches the dogs while
Willow watches from the control room.
The other ship is in utter chaos, with
only the dogs as the living creatures.
Monte finds puppies that he carries closer
for Willow to see better in the camera.
Once he's back in their spaceship, Willow
demands the puppy, but Monte insists that
they can't take it. Monte orders her
to leave so that he can decontaminate.
Monte heads to the garden and uses
the misting system to clean himself.
After he's done, Willow apologizes
for insisting on the dog,
realizing that they only need each other.
Later that day, Monte catches Willow praying,
asking her if she knew about gods. She admits that
she only wanted to know how it feels to pray. The
alarm alerts Monte to log his report for the day.
In space, the black hole produces a ring of
yellow light. Willow insists that it
means they're supposed to enter it.
With nothing left to lose, they prepare
the second shuttle. Willow wants to keep
the records they have onboard. Even if Monte
and his former crewmates were criminals, she
always viewed them as her heroes. Monte assumes
that the blackhole's firewall will destroy the
ship and everything in it, but Willow trusts that
there's no firewall and that they will survive.
As they prepare their spacesuits, Willow asks
if she looks like her mother, but Monte says no.
Instead, he says that she's
nothing like anyone else.
The shuttle ejects from the spaceship,
with the father and daughter inside.
Willow looks up at the spaceship that
she's called home her entire life,
saying farewell to it in her mind. Their shuttle
is filled with the yellow light as Monte takes
Willow's hand, ready to face whatever
becomes of them through the black hole.
Whether they pass through and reach
the next stage of their lives or die,
at least they leave the spaceship together.